and Jethro the priest of Midian Moses
and Jethro the priest of Midian Moses father-in-law heard of all that God had
father-in-law heard of all that God had
father-in-law heard of all that God had done for Moses and for Israel his people
done for Moses and for Israel his people
done for Moses and for Israel his people that the Lord had brought Israel out of
that the Lord had brought Israel out of
that the Lord had brought Israel out of Egypt then Jethro Moses father-in-law
Egypt then Jethro Moses father-in-law
Egypt then Jethro Moses father-in-law took sapota
took sapota
took sapota Moses wife after he had sent her back
Moses wife after he had sent her back
Moses wife after he had sent her back with her two sons of whom the name of
with her two sons of whom the name of
with her two sons of whom the name of one was Gershom for Moses said I have
one was Gershom for Moses said I have
one was Gershom for Moses said I have been a stranger in a foreign land and
been a stranger in a foreign land and
been a stranger in a foreign land and the name of the other was Allah Issa for
the name of the other was Allah Issa for
the name of the other was Allah Issa for he said the God of my father was my help
he said the God of my father was my help
he said the God of my father was my help and delivered me from the sword of
and delivered me from the sword of
and delivered me from the sword of Pharaoh and Jethro Moses father-in-law
Pharaoh and Jethro Moses father-in-law
Pharaoh and Jethro Moses father-in-law came with his sons and his wife to Moses
came with his sons and his wife to Moses
came with his sons and his wife to Moses in the wilderness where he was encamped
in the wilderness where he was encamped
in the wilderness where he was encamped at the mountain of God now he had said
at the mountain of God now he had said
at the mountain of God now he had said to Moses hi your father-in-law Jethro I
to Moses hi your father-in-law Jethro I
to Moses hi your father-in-law Jethro I am coming to you with your wife her two
am coming to you with your wife her two
am coming to you with your wife her two sons with him so Moses went out to meet
sons with him so Moses went out to meet
sons with him so Moses went out to meet his father-in-law bowed down and kissed
his father-in-law bowed down and kissed
his father-in-law bowed down and kissed him and they asked each other about
him and they asked each other about
him and they asked each other about their well-being and they went into the
their well-being and they went into the
their well-being and they went into the tent and Moses told his father-in-law
tent and Moses told his father-in-law
tent and Moses told his father-in-law all that the Lord had done to Pharaoh
all that the Lord had done to Pharaoh
all that the Lord had done to Pharaoh and to the Egyptians for Israel's sake
and to the Egyptians for Israel's sake
and to the Egyptians for Israel's sake all the hardship that had come upon them
all the hardship that had come upon them
all the hardship that had come upon them on the way and how the Lord had
on the way and how the Lord had
on the way and how the Lord had delivered them then Jethro rejoiced for
delivered them then Jethro rejoiced for
delivered them then Jethro rejoiced for all the good which the Lord had done for
all the good which the Lord had done for
all the good which the Lord had done for Israel whom he had delivered out of the
Israel whom he had delivered out of the
Israel whom he had delivered out of the hand of the Egyptians and Jethro said
hand of the Egyptians and Jethro said
hand of the Egyptians and Jethro said blessed be the Lord who has delivered
blessed be the Lord who has delivered
blessed be the Lord who has delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians and
you out of the hand of the Egyptians and
you out of the hand of the Egyptians and out of the hand of Pharaoh and who has
out of the hand of Pharaoh and who has
out of the hand of Pharaoh and who has delivered the people from under the hand
delivered the people from under the hand
delivered the people from under the hand of the Egyptians
of the Egyptians
of the Egyptians now I know that the Lord is greater than
now I know that the Lord is greater than
now I know that the Lord is greater than all the gods for in the very thing in
all the gods for in the very thing in
all the gods for in the very thing in which they behaved proudly he was above
which they behaved proudly he was above
which they behaved proudly he was above him then Jethro Moses father-in-law took
him then Jethro Moses father-in-law took
him then Jethro Moses father-in-law took a burnt offering and other sacrifices to
a burnt offering and other sacrifices to
a burnt offering and other sacrifices to offer to God and Aaron came with all the
offer to God and Aaron came with all the
offer to God and Aaron came with all the elders of Israel to eat bread with Moses
elders of Israel to eat bread with Moses
elders of Israel to eat bread with Moses father-in-law before God and so it was
father-in-law before God and so it was
father-in-law before God and so it was on the next day that Moses said to judge
on the next day that Moses said to judge
on the next day that Moses said to judge the people and the people stood before
the people and the people stood before
the people and the people stood before Moses from morning until evening
Moses from morning until evening
Moses from morning until evening so when Moses father-in-law saw all that
so when Moses father-in-law saw all that
so when Moses father-in-law saw all that he did for the people he said what is
he did for the people he said what is
he did for the people he said what is this thing that you are doing for the
this thing that you are doing for the
this thing that you are doing for the people why do you alone sit and all the
people why do you alone sit and all the
people why do you alone sit and all the people stand before you from morning
people stand before you from morning
people stand before you from morning until evening because the people come to
until evening because the people come to
until evening because the people come to me
me
me to inquire of God and they have a
to inquire of God and they have a
to inquire of God and they have a difficulty they come to me and I judge
difficulty they come to me and I judge
difficulty they come to me and I judge between one and another and I make known
between one and another and I make known
between one and another and I make known the statutes of God and his laws the
the statutes of God and his laws the
the statutes of God and his laws the thing that you do is not good
thing that you do is not good
thing that you do is not good both you and these people who are with
both you and these people who are with
both you and these people who are with you will surely wear yourselves out but
you will surely wear yourselves out but
you will surely wear yourselves out but this thing is too much for you you are
this thing is too much for you you are
this thing is too much for you you are not able to perform it by yourself
not able to perform it by yourself
not able to perform it by yourself listen now to my voice I will give you
listen now to my voice I will give you
listen now to my voice I will give you counsel and God will be with you stand
counsel and God will be with you stand
counsel and God will be with you stand before God for the people so that you
before God for the people so that you
before God for the people so that you may bring the difficulties to God and
may bring the difficulties to God and
may bring the difficulties to God and you shall teach them the statutes and
you shall teach them the statutes and
you shall teach them the statutes and the laws and show them the way in which
the laws and show them the way in which
the laws and show them the way in which they must walk and the work they must do
they must walk and the work they must do
they must walk and the work they must do moreover you shall select from all the
moreover you shall select from all the
moreover you shall select from all the people able men such as fear God men of
people able men such as fear God men of
people able men such as fear God men of truth hating covetousness and place such
truth hating covetousness and place such
truth hating covetousness and place such over them to be rulers of thousands
over them to be rulers of thousands
over them to be rulers of thousands rulers of hundreds rulers of fifties and
rulers of hundreds rulers of fifties and
rulers of hundreds rulers of fifties and rulers of tens and let them judge the
rulers of tens and let them judge the
rulers of tens and let them judge the people at all times then it will be that
people at all times then it will be that
people at all times then it will be that every great matter they shall bring to
every great matter they shall bring to
every great matter they shall bring to you but every small matter they
you but every small matter they
you but every small matter they themselves shall judge so it will be
themselves shall judge so it will be
themselves shall judge so it will be easier for you for they will bear the
easier for you for they will bear the
easier for you for they will bear the burden with you if you do this thing and
burden with you if you do this thing and
burden with you if you do this thing and God so commands you
God so commands you
God so commands you you will be able to endure and all this
you will be able to endure and all this
you will be able to endure and all this people will also go to their place in
people will also go to their place in
people will also go to their place in peace
so Moses heeded the voice of his
so Moses heeded the voice of his father-in-law and did all that he had
father-in-law and did all that he had
father-in-law and did all that he had said and Moses chose able men out of all
said and Moses chose able men out of all
said and Moses chose able men out of all Israel and made them heads over the
Israel and made them heads over the
Israel and made them heads over the people rulers of thousands rulers of
people rulers of thousands rulers of
people rulers of thousands rulers of hundreds rulers of fifties and rulers of
hundreds rulers of fifties and rulers of
hundreds rulers of fifties and rulers of tens so they judged the people at all
tens so they judged the people at all
tens so they judged the people at all times the hard cases they brought to
times the hard cases they brought to
times the hard cases they brought to Moses but they judged every small case
Moses but they judged every small case
Moses but they judged every small case themselves
themselves
themselves then Moses let his father-in-law depart
then Moses let his father-in-law depart
then Moses let his father-in-law depart and he went his way to his own land